-WVHEN P(ASIUM, BALANCE ISACONCERN POTASSIUM-SPARING Robert H. L. Galliver DYAZIDE MAKES SENSE. ADULT DOSAGE: Hypertension: Starting dosage is one tablet twice daily after meals. Dosage can be subsequently increased or decreased according to patient's need. If two or more tablets per day are needed, they should be given in divided doses. Edema: Starting dosage is one tablet twice daily after meals. When dry weight is reached, the patient may be maintained on one tablet daily. Maximum dosage four tablets daily. INDICATIONS: Mild to moderate hypertension in patients who have developed hypokalemia and in patients in whom potassium depletion is considered especially dangerous (e.g. digitalized patients). Medical opinion is not unanimous regarding the incidence and/or clinical significance of hypokalemia occuring among hyperensive patients treated with thiazidelike diuretics alone, and concerning the use of potassium-sparing combinations as routine therapy in hyperension. Edema of congestive hean failure, cirrhosis, nephrotic syndrome, steroidinduced edema and idiopathic edema. 'Dyazide' is useful in edematous patients whose response to other diuretics is inadequate. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Progressive renal dysfunction (including increasing oliguria and azotemia) or increasing hepatic dysfunction. Hypersensitivity. Elevated serum potassium. Nursing mothers. WARNINGS: Do not use potassium supplementation or other potassiumconserving agents with 'Dyazide' since hyperkalemia may result. Hyperkalemia ( > 5.4 mEq/l) has been reported ranging in incidence from 4%/. in patients less than 60 years of age to 12% in patients 60 and older, with an overall incidence of less than 8%. Rare cases have been associated with cardiac irregularities. Make periodic serum potassium determinations, particulady in the elderly, in diabetics, and in suspected or confirmed renal insufficiency. Hf hyperkalemia develops, withdraw 'Dyazide' and substitute a tbiazide alone. Hypokalemia is less common than with thiazides alone, but if it occurs it may precipitate digitalis intoxication. PRECAUTIONS: Check laboratory data (e.g. BUN, serum electrolytes) and ECG's periodically, especially in the elderly, in diabetics, in renal insufficiency, and in those who have developed hyperkalemia on 'Dyazide' previously. Electrolyte imbalance may occur, especially where salt-restricted diets or prolonged high-dose therapy is used. Observe acutely ill cirrhotic patients for early signs of impending coma. Reversible nitrogen retention may be seen. Observe patients regularly for blood dyscrasias, liver damage or other idiosyncratic reactions; perform appropriate laboratory studies as required. Sensitivity reactions may occur, particularly in patients with history of allergy or bronchial asthma. Periodic blood studies are recommended in cirrhotics with splenomegaly. Adjust dosage of other antihypertensive agents given concomitantly. Antihypertensive effects of 'Dyazide' may be enhanced in the post-sympathectomy patient. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria may occur. Insulin requirement may be altered in diabetics. Hyperuricemia and gout may occur. Thiazides have been reported to exacerbate or activate systemic lupus erythematosus. Pathological changes in the parathyroid glands have been reported with prolonged thiazide therapy. Triamterene may cause a decreasing alkali reseve, with the possibility of metabolic acidosis. Serum transaminase elevations sometimes occur with'Dyazide'.Thiazides can decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine and increase tubocurarine's paralyzing effect; exercise caution in patients undergoing surgery. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in breast milk; this may result in fetal or neonatal hyperbilirubinemia, thrombocytopenia, altered carbohydrate metabolism and possible other adverse reactions that have occurred in the adult. Use in pregnancy only when deemed necessary for the patient's welfare. ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following adverse reactions have been associated with the use of thiazide diuretics or triamterene: Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, anorexia, gastric irritation, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, jaundice (intra-hepatic cholestatic) pancreatitis, sialadenitis. Nausea can usually be prevented by giving the drug after meals. It should be noted that symptoms of nausea and vomiting can also be indicative of electrolyte imbalance (See Precautions). Central nervous system: dizziness, vertigo, paresthesias, headache, xanthopsia. Dermatologic-Hypersensitivity: fever, purpura, anaphylaxis, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis. Hematologic: leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia. Cardiovascular: orthostatic hypotension may occur and may be potentiated by alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics. Electrolyte imbalance (See Precautions). Miscellaneous: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia, muscle spasm, weakness, restlessness, transient blurred vision. SUPPLY: Scored peach-coloured compressed tablets monogrammed SKF E93 in boftles of 100, 500,1,000 and 2,500. DIN 181528. PAAB Full prescribing information available upon request. DZ:M:180CA CCPP ©Smith Kline & French Canada ltd, 1980 (2ghdohorothiazide, 50 mg triamterene) SK&F a Sm*OhK. compaiw LTD. SMITH KLINE &FRENCHL5NCANADA 2V7 Missassauca. Ont